---
title: "Peer Filtering: Democratic Misinformation Control in Social Networks"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: '/assets/talks/2024_peers.pdf'
paperurl: 'https://calvinroth.github.io/assets/talks/2024_peers.pdf'
venue: "INFORMs"
date: 2024-10-21
location: "Seattle, Washington"
---

Online social networking platforms suffer from the problem of misinformation spread that has serious societal implications in areas such as
politics and public health, among others. Social networking platforms spend a lot of effort on curtailing misinformation and the techniques
are often top down involving content moderation. Research on misinformation in social networks has overlooked the ability of the network as
a whole to moderate the content in a more democratic way. We study the power of peers in filtering out false information (peer filtering) in
social networks and how the platform can assist in peer filtering without direct content moderation or judging individuals. We present a
tractable model of content spread in a social network of Bayesian users who derive utility from sharing a content depending upon its veracity
and alignment with their opinions. Based on their posterior beliefs, the users choose whether or not to further share the content. We study the
resulting equilibrium in the network and the different types of equilibria that emerge. We show that, under all types of equilibria, true content
spreads more in the network than false content, but true content cannot go viral without false content also going viral. Using this model, we
describe how key metrics of the network vary with the parameters of the model. These metrics include how much false content is successfully
filtered out and how much true content remains as well as the volume and engagement in the network.